Okay then gang, in this lesson we're
going to talk about the tools available
to Claude code out of the box and also
how we can give project Y permissions to
Claude to use certain tools. So whenever
we ask Claude code to do something, it
generally uses some kind of built-in
tool to perform an action. For example,
to read a file, it would use a read
tool. To edit a single file, it uses the
edit tool. To run a bash command, it
uses the bash tool. And we don't need to
reference these tools when we send our
prompts or messages. Claude Code knows
when it needs to use certain tools based
on your instructions. Now, you might
have noticed that when I've asked Claude
to do some of these things in past
lessons, like edit a file, it asks me
for permission to do that thing before
it actually does it. And we can either
say yes or no, depending on whether we
want to grant that permission or not. On
the anthropic docs, it lists all of
these built-in tools available to Claude
Code, and it outlines what each one
does. It also shows you whether each of
these tools requires permission before
it gets used. For example, the bash and
the edit tools, they do require
permission, but read doesn't. So, if I
ask Claude Code to look at a file, it's
not going to prompt me to give it
access, but if I ask it to change a
file, then it will do. There's a tool
down here, by the way, called to-do,
right? and it uses that tool to make
these little checklists of things it
needs to do when you give it a task to
kind of keep itself on track. It's
pretty nice and you're going to see them
quite often as you're working with
Claude Code. Now, again, you don't need
to remember the names of all of these
tools and what they do because Claude
Code is designed so it knows what tool
to use and when automatically, but it is
good to know the kinds of things that
you can do out of the box. So, I will
leave this link down below the video.
All right, then. So, let's try doing
something that requires permission, like
editing a file. I'm going to ask Claude
code to add another theme variable to
the CSS file called highlight, which
needs to be a pastel yellow color. I've
also referenced the global CSS file
right here as well for context. And when
we send this off, as soon as Claude Code
figures out that it needs to edit a
file, it's going to ask our permission
to do it. Okay, so now it's edited the
file, or rather it wants to edit the
file, it's asking us right here, do you
want to make this edit to global.css?
So, we have three options. We can select
yes at the top, no at the bottom, and
you can give further instruction if you
want to, or this middle option, yes, and
don't ask me again this session. So,
we'll go through that in a second, but
for now, I'm just going to select yes to
give it permission to make this edit.
And because it's making multiple edits
to the file, it's asking me to make
further changes. So, it changed one
line, then it's going to somewhere else
in the file, and it's making another
edit. So, again, I'm going to press yes.
And it looks like it wants to update a
third time. So again, we're going to uh
press yes. And now it's all done. So for
a simple set of edits there to just a
single file, we had to grant permission
three times. Right now, let's try doing
a commit using the bash tool. So I'm
going to ask clause code this time. Can
you make a commit? Like so. And this is
going to do a few things. It's going to
add the files to the staging area, then
make the commit with a commit message.
So you can see right here it wants to
use bash. It's looking for any changes
and then eventually it wants to use this
command get add. Now this time when
claude code asks for permission I'm
going to choose this second option which
is yes and don't ask me again for git
add commands. Now if I choose this
option then it's going to carry on and
do this git command and it's also going
to create a new file called
settings.local.json
inside a do.claude claude folder in the
project. And inside that file, there's
going to be a permissions object with a
property inside it called allow. And
that allow property should be an array
of allowed commands for the project.
Meaning, if Claude Code tried to run
this bash command again in the project,
it wouldn't need to ask for permission
because we've allowed it here. So, as
Claude Code asks you for permission to
do different things, you can select that
second option to add the command to the
allowed list inside the settings file.
You can also manually add commands in
there yourself as well. And this would
just be for your workflow, by the way.
You wouldn't commit this file and push
it up. Something else you can do is
press Alt and M on Windows. It might be
control and M on a Mac. And that's going
to turn on this accept edits feature.
And now when you ask Claude Code to make
changes, it's not going to ask for
permission to do that, to edit your
files for this chat session. If you
start a new session, it will ask you
again until you turn this feature on.
You can turn it off again by hitting Alt
+ M twice. So then that's a quick
breakdown of tools, permissions for
those tools, and how we can edit those
permissions for the project inside the
settings file. Next up, we're going to
look at how Claude Code can plan and
think for more complex tasks.